## 2023-03-12 @pdxjohnny Engineering Logs

- https://knightcolumbia.org/content/understanding-social-media-recommendation-algorithms
  - > Turning from similarity between users to similarity between posts, the most obvious attribute that could be used for computing post similarity is content. The term content in this context usually refers to metadata (say, the title and description of a video) and less commonly the full content (i.e., the byte stream). The idea is simple: If a user likes a video on a particular topic, they will probably like other videos on the same topic. To analyze content in this way, a set of “feature extraction” algorithms preprocesses posts and represents them in a form that’s more digestible to algorithms: as a series of attributes (features). A simple example of a feature is the language or languages that appear in a post. Other features may be much more complex.
  - > The most important fact to keep in mind is that the behavioral record is the fuel of the recommendation engine. It might be surprising that recommendation algorithms are so simple to describe, given that large teams of highly skilled engineers work on them. But it takes a lot of ingenuity to translate high-level ideas of the sort I’ve described into an algorithm. In particular, keeping the computation tractable is a major challenge. The volume of information is vast: Based on the back-of-the-envelope calculations for TikTok above, the number of behavioral records may be of the order of a quadrillion (1015). A naive algorithm—for instance, one that attempted to compute the affinity between each user and each post—would be millions of times slower than an optimized one, and no amount of hardware power can make up the difference.
  - We want to apply this to software and entities combining software as Alice does