Manufacturing material scince what attributes. Wear rates. Wtcc 

we’ve been thinking of the next stage as a stage of getting off of earth. But it’s about self control. It’s about self accountability and self reliance. Its about instilling confidence in individuals and building up each other (you are better when your training partners are better). When we build each other up in these ad hoc organiztions we form (like gyms and regional tournaments) we are able to compete more effectively in the open division (the open network). We operate in different modes depending on context. UFC1 rules are not the same as drilling. Inside org trust boundaries and resources sharing policies are different depending on context. We do our best guess what we shiuld do based off models trained in pways which respect organizational provence requirements for offline infernece. knowledge sharing, the knowledge as the commodity, the essence, the upstream, the state of the art being the most valuable of those when sliced for a different system contexts strategic principles. About increasing the accuracy of that aggregate muscle memory. That top lvel model whoch issues control signals (segmented based on situational context to be able to not run infference for a subset of nurons and instead run dynamic capture. This all works because we are thinking in parallel. And we come up with as mamy possible solutions as possible within our deadline and continuously offer up the state of the art solution until the deadline upon which we have to execute.