- Find all potential paths for change in state of consciousness by analyzing across system context executing in different states (rolling stages? This is kind of how it already works, just a mode which says when your done start back at the beginning. Think this is already covered by the prioritization provenance and system cobtext povenanance). We can then begin to attempt to trigger those paths to move any system from ine concious state to the next. This also allows for discovery of new states of consciousness via classification of predicted valid system contexts. We do this via the cross domain conceptual mapping we use to see things from another perspective, aka the different set of operations. We map our states of consciousness and the data we have on those to Alice's as she understands our understanding of the world. Alice can then use those clustering models as a guide to see what other clusters exist which the human clusters know about. What dataflows / system contexts (predicted alternate threat mitigations from volume 1) does Alice predict to have a high probability of correlation. Remember this could be one of those proposed flows (the proposed mitigation) could have generated which may effectively have multiple set sof clustering models and tell us that the patterns of conciousness we know are really a subset of a subset of higher states of consciousness. Potentially related to the conceptual layers / levels being statetegic plan outputs
- For elixir folks, think of it as tertiary dependency tracing with auto refactoring for arbitrary optimization 