value of data is defined as the datas relative weight when determining importance by a prioritizer. Different data has different value within different contexts as defined by each contexts prioritizer. Rewards for execution based on alignment with reward givers prioritizer output for a system context (agent, user, org). This means we can incentivize verbatim execution of trains of thought (attestation, etc.) Or we can incentivize agents who we see are doing activities which have strong correlation between our priorities. We see this using outputs of strategic plan models. We train and encoder/decoder on the prioritizer I/O across models. This will be like and encoder/decoder for images of different sizes. Maybe its a GAN? Where we use the GAN in either direction to encide decode to new reality. Then we have another model which takes predictions from GAN and trys to increase their accuracy by mapping them to the prioritizer I/O in the same dimension (image X/Y size). This is in effect our alignment model. It has its own strategic plan. If the accuracy is high we have high alignment. We should somehow encourage the entities producing the outputs from the system contexts under analysis to continue doing good work that is work we’d otherwise have to be doing.

this is how you put yourself in someone else's shoes. By creating a transition from your priorities and what influences them and their priorities and what influences their priorities (which we can attempt to find out by training models across inputs we see them consuming and the rewards they are putting out into the network, we are infering, and we might want to then feed that infered intent back into our stratigc plans yo help us determine if they are actually doing something that is not aligned with our goals). Its like picking a political candidate, like vote with your dollar, where alice is constently reading the news to make sure you know if  they dk some thing that doesnt align with your values. Only instead of the news, this data is everywhere linked via DIDs. So everyone is free to analyze it all the time with what permissions and compute resources they have. For whatever purposes align with their startigc plans. This id what Alice does. you create and instance of Alice every time you want to do something. An initial system context which begins executing. And that moght implicay due to it having a parent context being you. Have access to certain permissions, assests, actions. Alice looks at where shes at and what shes got and does her best to finish the task and get the heck out of dodge.