open source working Groups as religions  metaphor - Open Religion - a collective of people contributing to overal governance and agreeing to funell overflow reward to deal woth extrernal group trade and agreed upon mechanisms of developing qoutes (via feautre extraction run with review system / attested provenance). Keep some shared asset pools for investment and some for r&d and some for maintainance. Diversfy the ad hoc geoups portfolio of assets appropriatly acrodijg or group policy.  Entities subscribe to multiple different religions and contribute to each to keep them well rounded and learn from that community. They invest time learning about the community, or assets. They use this learning to decide if each religion aligns to their stragetic plans. Via piroirtization this determines that entities thought up(create dataflow or dataflow as class), hypothesisied (model.predict), and executed (run) system contexts. This allows entities to consume information real time from their other running contexts via their chain of trust back to via herstory of that entities execution log. This allows them to join and leave religions (working groups) at any time. They are religious subsects because they map to use cases that different individuals trust Alice to do thing in different situatuons. The subset is a feature branch. They believe the work of the working group as a whole can be extended or fits well with that subsects / feature branch / sub effort. Group membership can be hedged by cobtractual agreements to behave acording to union of all member stop shipp measure iverlayed strategic plans.