- https://twitter.com/kelseyhightower/status/1586005703184945152?s=20&t=k6TbZZWA9-0eSSQRO9o10Q 
- https://www.princeton.edu/~wbialek/rome/refs/kelly_56.pdf
  - Vol 3
  - > If the input symbols to a communication channel represent the outcomes of a chance event on which bets are available at odds consistent with their probabilities (i.e., “fair” odds), a gambler can use the knowledge given him by the received symbols to cause his money to grow exponentially. The maximum exponential rate of growth of the gambler’s capital is equal to the rate of transmission of information over the channel. This result is generalized to include the case of arbitrary odds.
    >
    > Thus we find a situation in which the transmission rate is significant even though no coding is contemplated. Previously this quantity was given significance only by a theorem of Shannon’s which asserted that, with suitable encoding, binary digits could be transmitted over the channel at this rate with an arbitrarily small probability of error.

dump some offline notes from months ago:

G 11:6, 3:22

We are beginning to accelerate in time as knowledge travels faster. As learning happens faster and taking action on those learnings due to agent parallelization trains of thought executed overlap as aligned. The more system contexts plus state of consciousness (feature data plus overlayed strategic plans) we have the fast time goes relatively in that thread (much like in the animated Hercules, the threads of time, the more twine in the thread the more thread passes through the eye of a needle. The higher the throughput in that thread of time. Since we think in parallel and conceptually but we are only visualizing system contexts plus state of human understood state of consciousness combined as a thread right now, the thread of time the witch holds. That thread represents one persons life. If you look at a persons life as a string which is ever growing so long as they are alive. Say the number of pieces of twine in that string were equal parts divisible by every state of human consciousness we understand they were ever in, so if we did a subset of every state of consciousness we understand as humans, this subset being if they were in deep sleep for 1/4 of their lives, in restless sleep for 1/4, in high alert state for 1/4, and in regular alertness for 1/4. Then we’d see four twines making up the string. If you visualize those as actions, good deeds, bad deeds, then you can classify everything into pieces of twine for either good or bad path and you can see how fast a set of system contexts is progressing in the right ir wring direction. The goal is to progress in the right direction as fast as possible