Universal blueprint should establish a shared understanding of how far version use sprawl is. So it should allow us to see how to build the thing. It also should facilitate a reverse lookup to see all the places this universal blueprint is in use. Show variations of deployed versions to understand security impact of version sprawl and mitigation application, in terms of application of strategic security goals for assurances on overall downstream impact, this would enable Alice to examine large complex codebases and determine largest ROI hardening activities via estimation of complexity / cost / cycles needed strategic plans.

Some times a developer has multiple users (downstream) which work off of a developers development branches.
Centralization is easier to control what versions users are using via restricting usage to a specific sets of supported use cases by upstream. However, during development it's imperative that the validation of the thought processes should be done multiple times, sometimes on more than one instance of hardware or by different people. This is like A/B testing of feature branches. We should embrace this and mitigate the sprawl's negitive effects through visibility into sprawl and automation around overlayed delta flows and auto rebasing in of changes to upstream flows.


We should use this as an example in the future of how we can add traceability to what branches are in active development and use by users.
If we had the fully connected dev model where we detect when agents are working in the wrong direction, we could understand when things are going right as well.
We'll save a snapshot of the system context over each clock tick
As these clock tick snapshots get feed into the strategic plan model training we record each one, we then have visability into the chain of thought processes (dataflows executed) and input data collected (all inputs and outputs within system context end state.