- Should links (previously parents) exist within the BaseDFFMLObject Config? Is it like log? We should take links from cli as well like overlay and log
- Python native async iter can reach up stack as it understands that is within scope. It can also have call then add some inputs within a context. When used as a context manager it will only yield once. When used with async for it will yield multipe times or just act as it would usually cleaning up loop scope variables because they exist within subflow input network
- Should add links and logs as defaulted BaseConfig properties. Can use config decorator to apply base class. Or subclass from baseclass
- deployment is just a quick check to see if a method aka an operation exists on a system context. If so deployment should return an appropriate object for iteration, calling, async calling, if you want to use a list as a context manager its up to you to wrap wuth cobtext lib cleanup will be handled okay as decrived ablve
- For any python function we can swap out anything it uses from implementation with another, by parsing the ast and introducing mocks on all unique variables. We can then replicate logic in a dataflow based way and store using system context (aka open architecture aka Alice). This allows us to overlay modifications to code from upstream programmiticly. Which means we can effectively RBAC, fuzz, audit, on scope, scale, or deployment according to multiple sets if dynamic organizational policies effecting the entire rolling build, test, deploy repeat lifecycle