- We’re enabling a two way sync between time. We can write any chain of system contexts. A two way sync of state across representations of state with integrated risk management.
  - Rolling Alice: Volume M: Time Travel With Us (MartyParty: Ice Cream Truck)
  - Hypotheses: If we are able to trigger changes to conscious state we may be able to trigger certain changes to time. We may be able to learn the seed values and leverage the collective consciousness to move the consensus reality from it’s agreed upon state to another for some time at least 1/N unit time. Potentially could we even make the change permanent or for a controllable period of time? What is the collection that would need to achieve consensus in order for the parent system context to have a conceptual model which outputs a changed value from a strategic plan? The 0 or 1 for did you achieve change and the delta for how much what? Time? Something else? Did you have to expend to move that metric. This is the coup d'état of reality. The child system context changing the parent. Changing the system from within. What is the maximum amount of privilege a subflow can be given without it being a risk to the parents system contexts strategic principles moving in an unacceptable by gatekeeper direction.
  - Aka can we trust Alice to pay her tab if we let her run one, aka pay her to do a job. We are effectively saying shes paying us back if she fulfills the contact.
  - Can we trust her to pick our dependencies in this cross language intention based approach. Can we trust her to buy our groceries in alignment with our strategic principles, but making trade offs for budget, dietary, and other factors.
  - This is why we say we are looking at software DNA and how it combines with software nutrition label and other static and dynamic and arbitrary data source analysis. Because it allows us to predict and understand the software we have, and how to make it better with the agents and assets we have at our disposal.
- Understand all the layers of the stack. Understand calling conventions within and between them as protocols. Represent via heterogeneous serialization format (web3)
- Its like SWIG but cross everything via always option to I/O to web3
- Alice, the AI, the entity, is what understands how to initiate communication with and work with any other entities under any organizational or other constraints to get a job done, to move strategic principals in desired direction. People who don’t speak the same language moving a couch. Communication requires context and may involve language but requires a shared agreement on “reality”
- We don’t always understand the reality on the other side of execution of a hybrid on/off chain contract. Which is why our cross domain conceptual mapping is critical to achieve equilibrium is critical. It’s what allow us to quickly hone in on how do strategic principles map from what we know reality is and experience it to what we think it should look like on the other side. This is like our allowlist tool categories. We can attempt to predict them by using unsupervised clustering models on the output of the extracted feature data. We then train automl with auto feature engineering models across