Just as we can “see” the wolrd through another entities eyes or an organizations eyes by applying a their strategic plans.

we can train classification (unsupervised clustering) models on strategic plan outputs to see what their normal operationg modes are. How different activities typically effect the way they move their strategic principle metrics. Sometimes they are operating in learning mode. Sometimes they are in the flow. Using the force. At peak performance. They bob and weave, float like a butterfly sting like a bee these entities these trains of thought they are on a roll. Thats an operating mode, tuned performance thinking. Thinking thoughts that generate more good thoughts. Actions that generate more good thoughts and actions. Exponential growth of strategic metrics. We may also be able to use this to understand what agents have the standard operating procedure’s down. Like detecting a wave on another waves signal. When we see this operating mode happening regular flow mode (we work in thos mode most of the time) do we see evidence of a consistent strong signal for standard operating procedure’s being followed? Is there a model that maps the movement in strategic principles or those principles themselves back to predict values for adherence to standard operating procedures? Do we have other models to check that trains of thought are mapping actions to those SOPs? Can we identify when new work to be considered as an SOP is being done by picking out entities that are preforming well but dont have strong SOPs desipite prediction from strateigc principle values and movement saying it should? Then they are probably doing something good that we need to proliferate throughout the network (we can also guess at what it is). maybe a high accuracy strategic model maybe ise of some alternative flow for an op (alternative mitigation)