- Alice and the Art of Strategy
  - Creat visualiztions which create images based on strategic olan inputs. Can visualize a software roadmap across projects as a map in a battle with the little boxes and the positions you’re advancing towards. The units, terrain, buildings, supply lines, everything your org owns, represent the assets that you have involved as visualized using phogeny trees mapping the outputs of different strategic plans to different peices of the visualization. For instance visualize dev cycle as a hex board strategy game. Dieect alice what to invest assets in to further strategic plans as you see it. If you want to just having her make decisions by high level principles instead of play the game yourself that gets you to where we’re going with this whole effort. Like you’re playing age of empires and you say alice hold my flank and watch these supply lines these are critical to my engagement with 2 enemys to the north. She’ll know what to do. And she’ll tell you how she needs you to help her help you. And its all the same thing. We can apply all of this to engineering. You’re looking at your engineering and production resources as your tech research and your buildings (age of empires analogy). And the thing is it doesnt have ti be and rts game. Alice can paint it by understanding what the elements of your strategy are as abstract concepts and associate those with abstrat concepts in another system contex (painting). She can translate between conceptal maps within alternate fields / peoblem spaces
  - Cross with those commodity to ideation maps from strategy guy M something maybe

the fully connect dev model is the delf optimizating and maintaining system  