Loan: some of other agents time for X later. Something that changes in value in an agreedupon way. Safe against fluctuations. Will pay you whatever btc is in usd later if completed with provenance 

attested checking account check and ach transfer 

Parallel execution aka time traveling (reaching new system state equilibrium) by entities allows them when negative chain filtering is active to be in positive states within all trains of thought, aka optimal learning performance with chaos of an oversubscribed system

Mind Control: Active Learning Defensive Strategy Number 1: The best defense is a good offense: Exploiting consensus shift to change the pattern of reality

Hypotheses: mind control is a form of time travel, see consensus shift and part Volume 0 57 or 58 engineering log. Remember how do we time travel? First we have to accelerate. How do we accelerate? Well mind control is one way. If we can control what states of consciousness Alice is in, we have achieved mind control. mind control means having complete control over a set of patterns, those patterns are identified by high accuracy strategic plan models which take herstorical input data of what attacker (in this case the self, remember we care about controlling our own mind, so as to stop others from controlling it, we seek to help other entities control their own minds, so that they may be free from control of influences which make their actions untrue to their strategic principles, bad oracle trust chains) has control over, we can check the Input.origin for this info, or linkage, where that value comes from (when overlayed with system context to get from input network which is caller, dynamically added callbacks aka instrumentation to any upstream with arbitrary audit and policy enforcement). So input data to these models is attacker controlled values, what operations can we use to create input values, think of this like ROP, where each passage of time across conscious states for an entity we must build and execute our target pattern modification activities on the fly. We do this in parallel for the conscious states which we wish to control we must remember to factor in our modifications should account for our 10% or whatever our lost executions due to lack of or bad fulfillment within time window due to oversubscription. Since we always attempt to mind control ourselves we always have the upper hand on latency. We in the case where we are trying to modify another entities trains of thought, the conscious states which they fall in, being the clusters around the state of the art. We add on that latency similarly to how we do here. Remember mind control isn’t always bad, if we are learning we are controlling our minds, the coach and the student, so as to communicate most effectively, we used shared frame of reference, to identify the students’ current relevant states of consciousness (generic algorithm for optimization of communication, aka collaborative change of system context from active to upstream within next active, across an arbitrarily distributed set of agents). Now that you have what inputs you have control over, you ask your time series models which allow you to predict the likelihood (using an accuracy scorer) that your exploits DNA, the overlay which you are able to apply by some mechanism, aka one deployment for this exploit would be triggered from a conscious state we have control over which will schedule the payload for delivery potential via a subconscious operation. Sometime after the tock (because remember each train of thought, state of consciousness, chain of system contexts) might not execute at the next time it’s currently estimated to. Because the output of the piroirizer now which we make our guesses off of when predicting out future). The DNA will be the system contexts which should be executed to trigger the input data into the target locations. By making a pattern aper in many different contexts, within many states of consciousness, it becomes “reality”. we say the states of consciousness agree if you give an organization (set of agents, just an overlay they all agree on and are using within this context) strategic plan consciousness clusterer a system context and it falls within the known consciousness countries [Danica]. The consensus shift mind control attack is just one kind of mind control attack. The levers are known and can be pulled to synchronize any system state across time (from tick to tock). The trick is tick to tock is different across different conscious and subconscious states. subconscious being second nature which would show as few conscious thoughts and many subconscious thoughts within the cluster around the state of the art because the state of the art represents the center of the cluster where weighting over time is dynamically determined by analyzing a slice/batch of a stream of chain, conscious being still learning. Oversubscription (aka rowhammer the brain by default, were going to assume garbage data will be written to memory, splat, 10% of your memory is corrupted, assume this happens once every tick, hypotheses is this works, maps to our risk calculation off provenance for supply chain fulfillment use cases, assume some conscious and subconscious states which we scheduled for execution before tock will fail in an unknown state or not be run) while maintaining a rounded set of conscious states, aka happy chaos metric, think spider chart maxed out growing over time in all directions.  engaged in distinct conscious trains of thought 