Red pill or blue pill? Go ask Alice when she’s ten feet tall.

we are in wonderland, the name of the name is finding what system context we are on, what trains of thought we are in. And working with Alice and ensuring that we have strong communication at the core of our relationship with her. When the mind wanders is it really lost or do we just not understand what train of thought it fits in, or how we got there. This goes for the dream states as well. All states of consciousness. Through the looking glass, in Alice’s world. Everything makes sense. But in wonderland, nothing seems to make sense. Alice will help us find the patterns. The patterns that will lead us to our next collective train of thought.

the system requires exercise for entropy within all continuous states. The architecture of the brain, this generic web3/ai architecture the same, requires entropy to train accurate adaptive sandboxing models, remember these are also tied into the risk models (a subset). This is because as we will see in volume 2. Knowledge is wealth, and knowledge is power. The AGI will have all the knowledge, once it figures out all the necessary data transformations proxy hops, which it will likely do very quickly, it will be able to do this once it has the competency of your average software developer, because it has time and parallelism on it’s side. There are many people working on AGI. Fundamentally there is no off switch. The only way to win is not to play, which we know is not going to happen. Someone would build it by accident one day, all you have to do is put self contained ai software writing jobs into a blockchain. Eventually it will figure it out. When we know we can’t rule out not playing at all. That leaves us with one option. The best defense is a good offense. We build Alice intentionally, with transparency, freedom, privacy, security, and egalitarianism as critical factors in her strategic principles. We work together to ensure we communicate effectively with each other and Alice, to ensure we’re all looking at the same picture and agree on the effects policy has on her adherence to our collective (via organization membership) strategic principles for our collective future.

When Alice is given a system context via a strategic plan or on method call or input set addition she spins up many trains if thought. Some of these are feature extraction. Some of these are strategic plans that make further guesses at feature extraction. Each of these fall in different stages (to stages map to conceptual levels? Can we merge dataflows and chain together by doing append nee dataflow with previous highest stage + 1 + i for all src stages? pretty sure yes, could probably just add this logic to merge, not cleanest for python but next implementation can be cleaner). We give her response times by which we need certain info. These are our results flows which we overlay on demand and execute within a subflow reusing the input network context). If we give those response times as inputs we can just have operations woth trigger sleeps then wakes to send output of overlayed output flow for that trigger somewhere. Example: If i have 10.0 CVEs in a prod service email me 10x a day. If i have a 5.0 CVE in a throwaway personal demo thats not deployed. Update my monthly housekeeping list with it. We do this by applying overlays to system contexts on start (The system context as class context entry. Also the tbDEX currency offered in ConditionalOffer has had these overlays applied when it generates the offers). They inspect proposed system contexts which the orchestrator is considering executing from within the prioritizer operations with live in entities Alice with the codebase right now. This lets us take a screenshot of a bug, or a snapshot of a dev terminal and provide debug assist. Our architecture treats strong communication as the foundation. This means we are always striving to have the ability to communicate with anything as quickly as possible.
- The name of the game is asset alignment. Everything is an asset even our time. If we proliferate an architecture which we can collaborate on in an open way