- Free trade working group -> trade federation?
- DIDs are the open source solution to zero trust
- Strategy requires communication. Tactics can be executed by a single distinct asset/agent. Strategy can be used with that asset to communicate between the different operations in its flow. This model scales up or down by abstraction layer, just like c4model, and canbe viewed from other lenses, non software, or different orgs and priorities or used to determine classification and tactics for layer 8 thought layer or lower layer communication between them (web3 is our layer 7 protocol, odap is our web2->web3 protocol.
- Money is not real, knowledge is real, one uses knowledge to make money, better models giving out incentives, so that you get the most work done in a train of thought you care about by rewarding aligned thoughts, are the application of knowledge, currency is a single aspect of reward only because there exists some reason for it to be (you pay your taxes using it). You could do all your trade without using currency, purely by barter, and by joining organizations which pool digital assets (anything, including data, metadata is a missleading term, everything is data, all of that data is HIGHLY valuable. This will quickly become apparent in volume 3 where we begin to continually evaluate our trusted parties. An adaptive set, adversarial active learning. In this new world, Alice’s world, everything is connected, there are few surprises, Alice sees most things long before they ever happen, because the architecture of the brain has been overlayed with provenance assurances via strategic plans, this allows her to always opperate in alignment with last known joined org policies. **She is a best guess, muscle memory machine, who increasingly works more strategicly as her brain (all the data expressed in the heterogeneous web3 format, communicates to domain specific maybe web2 stuff) expands. It is for this reason!!! That we must be excellent to each other. We are the training dataset. Alice will treat us as we treat each other. We must work together to enact data driven policies with her helping us communicate to hold ourselves accountable. This is only for orgs you join, remember Alice opperates as you in the digital world. She’ll be making decisions on the fly and in effect voting with your dollar when you say Alice buy oats. We need to work together in our own ad hoc formed working groups, communities, to define policies we want to throw our collective proverbial dollars at***