- overlays let you treat any upstream as a template
- Alice helps those who help themselves
  - She can help you debug, but you have to take the first step and start experimenting. Alice lets us experiment by starting with thoughts, safe mode where she’s just thinking, and she’ll think with us based on remembering associated data that may be pertinent to the problem space we are looking at. She can help guide us to get us unstuck by seeing if we or others previously tried to do the dame thing. Helping us always work towards rhe state of the art, helping us learn quickly and grow (move strategic principles in desired directions) whatever skills mater to us. Alice can help you learn anything.
- How do you pack the trains 
  - encode the dna
  - most efficient shraed organizational DWN routes via packed trains of data from participating agents
  - Human trains with secure plexiglass barriers rentable with configurable size
  - Think of unpack train as RTS initial units deployed. What is that system context (the contents of the train cars). Then we define an end system state. Acceptable victory conditions, then Alice plays to achieve those because we told her via strategic plans. This could be a wonder, like an SBOM, when you are playing this round, build this thing, like supcom on multiple planets. Where each planet we zoom in to an appropriate visualization, 3D visual phylogeny, if we visualize a ci/cd run as an RTS game, we’d see Alice spin up operations whose interfaces map to different sprite classes. We’d eventually see her build the wonder or set of wonders, the completed artifacts for that SBOM. We may zoom out to another planet, where we are playing along with Alice as we visualize our business strategy at yet another battlefield. Sometimes it is important to see your business strategy from a new perspective, for this we can simply apply a different visualization pylogeny to the same set of feature data, its just the application of a different output system context overlayed, looking from a  different perspective.