- 2 comments, different threads, same connent, use Peer DID to reference same conneent and filter discussion based on parent thread
- can use web3 as cve bin tool mirrors / torrent / webtorrent / ipfs
- Bridging the web2/web3 Identity Gap
- `did:key` is a method 0 `did:peer` (inception key without doc)
  - Add top level context overlay switch to command line and high level run. Use this to pass dataflow which might load from `~/.local/` or somewhere else. Always require argument, never load from disk a default, people can make aliases or use environment variables to set. Always load via env vars or CLI or python API. Never assume disk.
- https://identity.foundation/peer-did-method-spec/#generation-method
  - > The DID doc offers no endpoint. This makes the DID functionally equivalent to a `did:key` value, and visually similar, except that a peer DID will have the numeric algorithm as a prefix, before the multibase encoded, multicodec-encoded public key. For example, `did:key:z6MkpTHR8VNsBxYAAWHut2Geadd9jSwuBV8xRoAnwWsdvktH` is equivalent to `did:peer:0z6MkpTHR8VNsBxYAAWHut2Geadd9jSwuBV8xRoAnwWsdvktH`. The `did:peer` version differs in that it is upgradeable to a dynamically updatable DID with full DID doc and endpoints, simply using deltas, as long as the first delta is authenticated by the inception key.
- security: Do not print out secrets from configs ever
  - https://github.com/intel/dffml/issues/1381
- struggled to make Ed25519 `ssh-keygen` generate to PEM format
  - "Ed25519 keys always use the new private key format"
    - https://it-qa.com/why-is-the-ed25519-private-key-not-supported-in-openssh/
- https://coolaj86.com/demos/ssh-to-jwk/
  - Turns public keys into JWK
- https://github.com/pyrsia/pyrsia
- Can we generate with openssl and convert to ssh version of ed25519?
- With PGP we have trust levels
  - Am I communicating with the identiy I think I am
  - used to have parties and sign keys
  - We could have strategic plans for bid acceptance
- Keybase is useful, if github key is valid, check keybase (could ask for keybase url in ssh key comment) keybase i merkle
- SHould have revokation things, like bad reviews
- Most of teh tiem your encvrption key is a subkey of the signing key these days
- Those subkeys are generated by genreing and ecdh key and signing that with your signurature key (then uploading to keybase or wahtever)
- If a key is identiy, different providers are adding meta data to that principle, issueing a cert to that key, multiple issues can issue certs to the same key
- So you can peresent diffent cerst for differnet situations
- Myabe even create a temproary identiy which has a certain set of properties which are not elsewhere, may not be attached to main identity (TPM)
- Multi-key wallet, i have NFT
- SPKI, sp and elison
- Basics of X509, nothing saying multiple issues can't issue certs for the same key
- What do I know about identity provider X?
  - This is the same as what credential / certificate issuers do I trust
  - Do I know that I can trust them to check id on their accounts coming in.
  - You could weight claims based on issuer. Risk models evolve for contract auto acceptance