Publications
============

This pages contains various talks and publications that have been done relating
to DFFML. Organized by format.

Talks
-----

Down the Dependency Rabbit Hole
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`John Andersen`

As people with the word "security" in our titles, we come across a lot of
questionable decisions. It’s our job to scrutinize the dubious and guide the
less paranoid. Wide eyed developers in a dependency wonderland can easily find
themselves smoking opiumssl with a caterpillar from stackoverflow who assured
them it’s twice as performant than openssl. Nevermind the fact that it was
written by @madhatter in 2012 and never touched since. In our infinite wisdom we
set them back on the right track. But how wise are we really? Could a robot do
just a good a job at guiding them through the looking glass?

Recording
+++++++++

`Comming soon...`

Slides
++++++

.. raw:: html

    <iframe src="images/BSidesPDX_2019_Down_The_Dependency_Rabbit_Hole.pdf" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" width="688" height="600" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Poster Presentations
--------------------

`Yash Lamba`

Presentation of work done over Google Summer of Code 2019 working on adding new
machine learning models to DFFML.

.. raw:: html

    <iframe src="images/GSoC_2019_Models.pdf" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" width="688" height="600" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Papers
------

Theory, Operation, and Application of Neural Networks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


`John Andersen`

This paper examines the history and current state of machine learning. It
examines neural networks, theory behind neural networks, how they are
implemented, and how they are used. The systems and networks examined have up to
three modes of learning. Theory behind machine learning is broken up into three
approaches; rule-based, Bayesian, and neural networks. Operation of machine
learning algorithms has been enabled by several prevalent libraries in the open
source community, as well as various hardware technologies. Due to this surge in
resources application developers have been able to apply machine learning in
novel ways. An application of machine learning to evaluate the security
practices of open source software was undertaken as the culmination of this
thesis.

.. raw:: html

    <iframe src="images/Theory_Operation_and_Application_of_Neural_Networks.pdf" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" width="688" height="600" frameborder="0"></iframe>
